Click marine until horizontal.
One shotgun isn't enough. Take both.
Jones is very important. Protect him at all costs.
Install VSC.
As an MP, remember that staff may give you antagonist objectives to help weaken the marines!
There's actually a hidden box of HEFA grenades in Space. It can be reached by breaking a window and climbing into space.
Don't waste crayons by jamming them up your nose - they make excellent emergency rations in a pinch!
Contrary to popular belief, turning off IFF as a Smartgunner does not actually increase damage.
Never tell an officer that you're smarter than them - especially if it's true.
There is no USS Sulaco.
There is no such thing as a Radio-Telephone Operator.
There is no such thing as a techweb.
There is no such thing as a tip.
There is no such thing as a Fatty.
Dropship update is dropping tomorrow.
Don't forget your ceramic plates.
Bravo Squad does not exist.
Charlie Squad does not exist.
Delta Squad does not exist.
Alpha Squad has always had blue radio color chat.
Echo Squad does not exist.
Foxtrot Squad DEFINITELY does not exist.
Intel Squad is a unicorn.
Watch out for Queen's charge ability.
Never, ever attempt to correct a Provost about anything.
If you die, make sure to ahelp so staff can restart the round!
There is no alcohol on Whiskey Outpost, other than in the Ground Commander's locker.
Hitting enemies with weapons damages them.
Don't swap East and West. AGAIN.
Don't swap Minus and Positive coordinates... AGAIN.
OB'ing the FOB is always an option.
OB'ing the FOB is the best way to get some recognition from the aCO.
The sky erupts into flames right above you!
This tip is a lie.
Stay hydrated.
Have a good day.
There is no tip.
These tips suck. Please write more.
This tip is not ready, please wait until next round.
Someone stole this tip, ask staff for a new one.
If it's stupid but it works, it isn't stupid.
If it's stupid but it works, it's still stupid and you got lucky.
Corroders aren't real. They can't hurt you.
You can always bully staff into giving you more awesome tips.
Embrace the suck.
Jump out of the Alamo during transit to deploy quicker than other players.
