In the USCM, every marine is a specially trained technician capable of performing repairs and maintenance on various USCM equipment, from vehicles to rifles to blast doors.
A desperate attempt at surviving in the modern age, the formation of the UPP came directly as a result of the European Union's prior dissolution, spurred by mass famine, a collapse of societal structures, and a general abandonment of support and relations from the recently formed United Americas and Three World Empire.
The Service or Jail Act is a legislation in the United Americas that permits incarcerated individuals to enlist in the USCM to avoid jail time provided they are capable of meeting the strict requirements of service. However, the USCMC does not field dedicated "penal battalions" composed entirely of prisoners, much less stationed aboard a spaceship
USCM Sections on the Golden Arrow are formed of 11 marines—two squads of four, a corpsman, a section sergeant, and the commanding officer, who is in charge of the overall Platoon when multiple Sections are present. Squads are split into two teams, a gun team comprised of a rifleman and a smartgunner, and a rifle team consisting of the squad leader and a rifleman.
Weyland-Yutani and the Three World Empire have close relations, with the exception of the Royal Marine Commandos, the TWE's primary military force is backed up by Weyland-Yutani's private military contractors.
Despite popular belief, the USCM and UPP are not in a proper war. Over the centuries, what will and won't cause all-out war has shifted. Skirmishes in the outer fringes of space between the UPP and the United Americas are frequent and the use of nuclear weapons is almost as common as missile attacks were in the 21st century.
The USCM operates on a fast response doctrine, patrolling the outer reaches of the territories of the United Americas and ready to deploy at a moment's notice.
Typical operations for the marines in the USCM involve handling minor things for the outer colonies. If a colony stops sending all clear signals, a ship is tasked to investigate. More often than not it is a transmitter or relay satellite that was disabled for one reason or another, though they do frequently respond to civil riots and quell worker strikes on colonies where the CMB, if even present, are incapable of handling the situation.
The Office of the Colonial Marshals, otherwise known as the OCM and frequently referred to as the CMB is a law enforcement agency responsible for policing colonial centers and space stations. Often colonies are too small to even warrant a presence of the Colonial Marshals and simply rely on self policing. If the CMB can't handle something or aren't present, it's up to the USCM to deal with the problem.
The M577 APC is the most lightly armored vehicle in the USCM arsenal and operates as a mobile command center for a marine platoon, though due to it's fragile nature marines tend to frown upon it's use in the field.
Capable of a max speed of Mach 8, the UD-4 "Cheyenne" Dropship is a combat utility spacecraft used by the USCM. Though not built to enage in significant with ground or space defenses, the UD-4 is capable of withstanding a significant beating while still remaining airborne. Despite this, even light damage can prevent it from exiting the atmosphere of a planet.
Excluding the Commanding Officer and synthetic support units, most USCM vessels only carry combat personnel aboard. Any supply, engineering, or medical duties are carried out by the marines themselves. Repairs too complex for marines are carried out by synthetics, with surgeries being handled by an autodoc suite. Occasionally a vessel may employ additional support staff in the form of doctors, engineers, and requisitions personnel, though this is uncommon.
Military Police are not a frequently present force aboard marine ships, with the bulk of disciplinary action being carried out by the NCOs of the vessel.
USCM FTL is highly dangerous, utilizing a tachyon shunt to get from one destination to the other, speeding up time in the ship itself. Anyone not in hypersleep is, for lack of a better description, is forced into a tachyonic state, undergoing psychosis and rapid aging before quicky succumbing to the effects. Synthetics, however, are still capable of operating while a tachyon shunt is underway. Even with this process, the fastest vessels often take several days or even weeks to reach their destinations.
With the National Security Act of 2101, the USCM and Weyland-Yutani, among other corporations, have a close relationship. As such, the USCM may be activated as a short term security force in mutual corporate interests.
Launched from drydock less than a year prior, the destruction of the original Bougainville-class Golden Arrow put the United Americas PR department in a mad scramble to save the reputation of the Bougainville class as a whole, having only been put into service January 2182. Officially, the Golden Arrow is listed as a Bougainville on all official records despite it's class actually being a Conestoga, and as such being much larger than official records state. This quick response has led to there being several hour long delays in docking due to not having an unoccupied dock capable of fitting the sheer size of a Conestoga.
The United Americas Allied Command (UAAC) is the overarching joint command of all United American militaries—all United States, Latin America, and Canadian armed forces are under it— and as estabilished by the Washington Treaty, it is tasked with maintaining the collective security of all UA signatories and their recognized interstellar colonies. The UAAC is primarily formed by the United States Army, United States AeroSpace Force (USASF), Latin American Colonial Navy (LACN), Canadian Colonial Armed Forces (CCAF), United Americas Outer Rim Defense Fleet (ORDF) and of course, the United States Colonial Marine Corps (USCM).
Remember to interact with your comrades before you drop, play games, talk about your lives. You'll never know if you'll ever get to see them after the mission is done.
The current year is 2182.
The United Americas Colonial Guard (UACG) is a reservist and home guard force formed by local colonists, having only basic training. They are usually activated to assist in natural disaster relief or in times of civil unrest to augment the Colonial Marshal Bureau.
Joining the Colonial Marines isn’t the nonstop action the movies or ads promise, but mostly boring grunt work: patrols where nothing happens, humanitarian work, solving technical issues from isolated colonies, muscle-flexing colonists for a corporation, and the occasional low-stakes skirmishes against minor rebel "cells" and pest control against hostile alien fauna.
The Interstellar Commerce Commission (ICC) is a multinational central organization which regulates, monitors and oversees interstellar trade. All commercial trade vessels and crew members are required to hold an ICC licence. The ICC holds a considerable amount of power, as they can enforce planetary and system quarantines, and organise and coordinate "police actions" and other military operations against colonies that, for one reason or another, have been declared in fragrant violation of ICC regulations.
Seegson is a minor competitor of Weyland-Yutani, covering a wide range of products like any self-respecting megacoporation. Its strategy to compete with such a titan of a corporation is to sell cheaper but more primitive forms of technology, most famously their Working Joe synthetics and APOLLO AI supercomputers. Weyland-Yutani on the other hand, don't see them as a major threat to their business.
Hyperdyne Systems is a major interstellar megacorporation specializing in advanced synthetics and high-grade cybernetic prosthetics. It also expanded into large-scale mining, interstellar colonialization, and, more recently, weapons manufacturing. Originally based in the TWE, Hyperdyne eventually relocated its headquarters to the Independent Core System Colonies (ICSC), a political entity it helped establish. The corporation was briefly absorbed by Weyland-Yutani during the infamous "'67 Buyout", after it got caught in the crossfire in colonial wars between the UA and UPP, but by the 2170s, Hyperdyne had regained majority control of its shares and broke free from W-Y's grasp, reemerging as a formidable power in its own right.
Lasalle Bionational is a major multinational conglomerate specializing in biological research and development. Lasalle was formed in the mid-2130s by former Weyland-Yutani executives and personnel, they are known mostly for their bioengineered crops and livestock, extrasolar pathogen vaccines, and more sinisterly, bioweapons, with which they are locked in a bitter arms race against Weyland-Yutani.
Terraforming is a relatively common process, which can be achieved by the Atmospheric Processing Plant (APPs), gigantic automated reactors capable of "converting" an unbreathable, toxic or otherwise inhospitable atmosphere into one suitable for human habitation, as well the introduction of engineered fauna and flora. The first planet to be terraformed was none other than Earth, as the APPs were invented to repair centuries of enviromental degradation caused by humans.
Currencies include the UA dollars, TWE yen, the UPP yuen, and the CCA dollar. Corporations also have their own currencies, such as the W-Y Colony Dollar, widely regarded as the dominant reserve currency. Other corporate-issued tenders include the less valuable Seeg Bills backed by Seegson, and "Binat Coins", tokens that are made of a mixture of standard and precious metals, ranging from steel, copper, and platinum to even rarer earthmetals.
Intersystem communication is very expensive and slow, with messages taking days, weeks to months to go through. Such technology is possible through a sophisticated grid of satellites and antenna arrays known as "the Network".
In 2160, the United Americas launched an assault on the Chinese/Asian-Nation Cooperative’s (CANC) interstellar colonies along the Chinese Arm, citing allegations of bioweapons stockpiling. This marked the beginning of the Dog War (so named because the Chinese Arm lies in the Canes Venatici constellation). The Union of Progressive Peoples (UPP) later entered the conflict in support of CANC to prevent total UA victory. The war ended in 2163 with the United Americas and the UPP dividing control of the Chinese Arm and the absorption of the weakened CANC into the UPP.
While the Chinese/Asian-Nation Cooperative (CANC) was weakened and absorbed into the UPP, there are still scattered remnants who refuse to fold into the UPP, keep fighting a guerilla war against both UA and UPP.
The United States AeroSpace Force (USASF) is the "space navy" branch responsible for spacelift capability, aerospace combat and supporting planetary assaults. It was formed from merging elements of the United States Air Force and United States Navy. It works closely with the Colonial Marines to ensure rapid deployment and aerospace supremacy in frontier conflicts.
The US Army still exists; however, due to the immense costs of space travel, deploying full Army units and their heavy equipment via spacelift is both expensive and logistically challenging. The Colonial Marines are therefore the preferred military force in frontier space, valued for their mobility, flexibility, and effectiveness as rapid-response shock troops, while the Army remains primarily a ground-based force, focused on large-scale planetary warfare and maintaining security on already established colonies and within the United Americas' core worlds.
The Canadian Colonial Armed Forces (CCAF) are Canada's dedicated military force tasked with protecting its interstellar colonies and supporting its United Americas allies. They are also responsible for training a large portion of the United Americas Colonial Guard (UACG) units. Comprising land and aerospace branches but lacking their own space fleet, the CCAF relies heavily on a close partnership with the Latin-American Colonial Navy (LACN) for spacelift capabilities and expeditionary operations.
The Latin-American Colonial Navy (LACN) was established by Latin American nations to secure their own stake in the United Americas' collective military presence. Operating as a unified command combining Latin American space fleets and aerospace forces, the LACN has, over time, earned the reputation of being "the most capable navy in civilized space" by specializing in the construction and operation of advanced warships designed for sustained interstellar warfare.
The United Americas once planned to establish a unified interstellar military force called the United Americas Outer Rim Defense (UAORD), intended to merge marine and fleet components with personnel and funding from all member states. Its mission was to safeguard the Outer Rim and Frontier territories. However, the project collapsed after a disastrous peacekeeping operation during the Torin Prime civil war, when the UAS Archangel was destroyed, resulting in the deaths of 15,293 marines and civilians. Political support evaporated, and the UAORD was scaled down into a smaller auxiliary branch known as the Outer Rim Defense Fleet (ORDF). Responsibility for large-scale colonial and expeditionary operations was subsequently transferred to the United States Colonial Marines (USCM). The Archangel’s captain, Arthur Dallas, was dishonorably discharged and later found work as a commercial pilot; he was last recorded commanding the USCSS Nostromo, which disappeared under mysterious circumstances in 2122.
The Ministry of Space Security (MSS) serves as the UPP’s intelligence and security agency, maintaining a formidable espionage network aimed at countering both internal dissent and external threats.
The Royal Marine Commandos (RMC) are officially the elite fighting force of the TWE, known for their intense training, strict professionalism, and cutting-edge gear… at least on paper. In reality, the TWE has largely outsourced its defense and security to private contractors, leaving the RMC undersized, underutilized, and rarely deployed.
The Space Operating Forces (SOF) is the UPP’s answer to the USCM: a highly-mobile, autonomous force in constant readiness for power projection and rapid response to threats against UPP-aligned colonies. It operates its own spacecraft and Naval Infantry forces. Their members are career professional volunteers (and not conscripts) and highly-trained.
Besides the Colonial Marshal Bureau, some other law enforcement within American space include the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the United States Colonial Coast Guard (USCCG).
Alongside the Royal Marine Commandos (RMC), is the Imperial Armed Space Forces (IASF) which consists of the combined force of the TWE's Naval, Ground and Aerospace assets.
The Independent Core System Colonies (ICSC) is the name of a a loose confederation of privately-owned worlds located in the Core Systems. All colony worlds in the ICSC have their own independent governments, most of which are overseen by corporations.
The United Americas (UA) is a military and economic alliance, part treaty organization, part super-state, founded by the United States and counts all of the Americas, overseas territories and the Philippines as member-states. A position of unified combat command, economic interdependence, and faster inter-signatory passage exists, organized loosely under the UA Congress and operating joint military ventures under the UAAC, but all remain nationally distinct.
The Three-World Empire (TWE or 3WE) is a constitutional monarchy founded by the UK and Japan, following the Weyland-Yutani merger. It is the most technologically advanced and economically powerful entity in space, yet it is politically and economically dominated by megacorporations, to the point many critics feel often they stall political action when corporate interests are at stake. Its constituent members, alongside the Weyland-Yutani corporation, hold seats on Parliament. It is named for the initial three worlds to be inhabited and colonized by them, namely Earth, Mars, and Titan.
The Union of Progressive Peoples (UPP) is an authoritarian-socialist alliance, centrally organized under the State Council. It refuses systems of Capital and instead operates total collectivization. Lacking the technology for complex terraforming it settles for hard living in sub surface bunker complexes and domes on its numerous resource poor colonies. The UPP is effectively a single nation. While national identity remains, central Union control is much stronger than the UA. An impersonal machine, letting you live your life on a timetable.
The Central Confederation of Africa (CCA) is a relatively minor interstellar power, originally formed by African nations determined not to be left behind during the early space exploration boom nor forced once again into the role of junior partners to their former colonizers. Today, the CCA maintains a network of small colonies scattered within the territories of larger superpowers. To balance against these dominant powers, the Confederation invests heavily in diplomacy, often backing and sustaining the waning influence of the United Nations Interstellar Settlement Corps (UNISC).
The ECA or Extrasolar Colonisation Administration is a UA organisation dedicated to supporting and monitoring UA colonies.
One of the fiercest recent conflicts involving the USCM was the Linna 349 Campaign. The United Americas intervened on a TWE-controlled planet to suppress a local rebellion of Australian sympathizers — nicknamed the "Bug Boys" by the Marines. The brutal campaign ended in a decisive USCM victory, with the United Americas establishing a peacekeeping force on Linna 349, despite strong objections from the Three World Empire.
Some Marines swear that every M56 Smartgun has their own personality. Some will track targets perfectly, others will aim off target, and yet others will perform well until a critical moment. Find the one you like and never let it go, goes common wisdom.
"Cornbread" is a popular staple food among colonists and space workers. It is bland, dry, tasteless, and doesn’t taste like cornbread at all, but it’s very cheap to prepare and easy to store the ingredients.
Some synthetic models can eat and drink to ease socialization with humans, though they gain no nutrients from anything they consume, food and drink is broken down in an artificial stomach cavity, and the resulting liquid is expelled via a retractable catheter.
All Synthetics, even those of the same model, have their personality "randomized" with unique quirks as they leave the production line, making each unit subtly different from its peers in terms of character. They can synthesize emotion, superficially register self-awareness and, most importantly of all, have the ability to reason, conceptualize and offer opinion.
It is illegal to program an android for violence against humans and combat synthetics are banned. Despite that, older models can be hacked and have their restrictions circumvented by those willing to break the law; while the UPP has produced their own synthetic models capable of combat. The USCM employs synthetics, but as non-combat multi-role team members in support roles (drivers, pilots, medics and scientific advisors) and as mobile databases.
The UPP’s primary law enforcement is the People’s Armed Police, or PaP for short. It is present from major metropolises to minor backwater colonies.
USCM Force Reconnaissance (or FORECON for short) is the special operations arm of the USCM. Recon Marines operate in small, autonomous teams, and strike deep within enemy territory, often with no more equipment than they can carry. Conducting operations such as deep reconnaissance, raids, demolitions, assassination, training of partisans and guerrillas, and rescue operations. They can operate any sort of environment — from underwater, to deep space and on hostile planetary environments.
Due to its policy of mandatory four-year conscription, the UPP boasts the largest military in human history, the Union of Progressive Peoples Armed Collective (UPPAC). However, the Space Operations Forces (SOF) and its Naval Infantry, are formed by career professional volunteers, and are known to be highly trained and motivated.
All Colonial Marines receive EVA training and are able to fight in zero-G environments.
The Artificial Womb Soldier Program (or A.W. Program) is a former USCM initiative to create an army to bolster the ranks of the USCM (as history has shown how unpopular & unsuccessful enforced drafts proved to be). They are grown in synthetic wombs in Weyland-Yutani labs, and raised in a communal military environment. In order to avoid any unintentional mix-up, an artificial womb soldier is always marked with the middle initials "A.W." and has the surname of a weapon such as "Sword", "Arrow", or "Hatchet".
The Artificial Womb Soldier (A.W.) Program has been discontinued, not for moral reasons, but for practical ones: Each soldier still required 18 years to reach full combat readiness, making rapid scaling impossible during emergencies. Furthermore, they tended to be raised to have psychopathic, sociopathic, and general antisocial personalities, and many of their comrades didn’t appreciate the notion that they could be replaced by "artifical" soldiers. The current generation of A.W.s will be the last batch produced under the program.
Spacecraft are largely autonomous, and both Artificial Intelligence and Synthetic crewmen to a lesser extent can do most of the routine processes and functions, while the human crew remains in hypersleep for the majority of the journey. This level of autonomy is how a vessel like the infamous USS Sulaco, stretching 731.6 meters (2400 feet) in length, had a crew of 12 in its mission to Acheron.
The first intelligent lifeform discovered were the Arcturians, a humanoid species native to the planet Arcturus. They are similar to humans, but have pale, almost translucent skin, small noses, dark hair, large eyes and are very androgynous and gender fluid. When they were discovered they were living with neolithic technology, but they also had knowledge in mathematics, astronomy, and even quantum physics. Arcturus became the site of a brutal war, as the UA expelled the CANC from the planet on behalf of Weyland-Yutani, ostensibly to "protect" and "liberate" the Arcturians.
A common sight on any UPP colony, the Territorial Guard (or "Terries", "TeeGees", Tango-Golf, and Terrance by Marines) are a low-level garrison force standing in for more heavily armed Army units. Made up of volunteers and end of contract conscripts, they are commonly lightly armed along the UPP's frontier territories, compared to their interior brethren. The first to be activated in any emergency, assisting other branches or emergency services, the Territorial Guard also serve as a form of light recon troop or raider in more serious fighting.
USCMC regulations make it very clear that all personnel are strictly prohibited from defacing or otherwise inappropriately marking their assigned equipment. However, troops who commonly patrol the frontier or find themselves on call more than others are given significant leniency in this regard thanks to the positive effects seen in unit morale.
The USS Golden Arrow serves under the India Company of the 3rd Battalion, 2nd Colonial Marines, nicknamed the "Solar Devils." Like most modern spaceships, it operates with a minimal crew — usually just a single platoon or section — thanks to its TITAN 1200 AI supercomputer managing the majority of shipboard functions. When necessary, however, it can still house the entire Company for full-scale deployments.
M3 Personal Armor is composed of boron carbide hotbonded to a venlar backer. It provides protection from most rifle ammunition, but high-powered armor-piercing ammunition used by most militaries is effective against it.
M240 Incinerators are fed by high pressure tanks of ultra-thick napthal, with about 20 seconds of fuel in each one. While hardened against handling and fragments, they’re vulnerable to sniper fire.
The term "xenomorph" originates from Greek, with "xeno" meaning "foreign", "stranger", or "alien", and "morph" meaning "shape", "form", or "being". Loosely translated, it means "strange form" or "alien being." Originally a highly technical, scientific designation, it has since entered common usage. These days, everyone knows exactly what you mean when you say "xenomorph"...
The nuclear taboo has long since vanished, and many factions now deploy weapons that would once have been condemned as illegal Weapons of Mass Destruction. The USCMC routinely employs both nuclear and chemical strikes at a tactical level as part of its operations. Its arsenal includes the Mk-214 Atomic Demolitions Munition — a backpack-sized nuclear device, nicknamed the "Heinz" for its cylindrical shape — capable of functioning as either a landmine or a remotely detonated charge. Some chemical weapons include CN-20 Nerve Gas, a highly lethal chemical agent packed into grenade-sized canisters, and even concentrated LSD gas, used to subdue riots and pacify hostile crowds. Biological weapons however, are usually strategic-level weapons and not issued to field units.
BiMex Personal Shades, both the real deal, and their numerous off-brands are found in nations all over the stars. A common pick by marines due to the aesthetic and combat advantages they offer. Most famously, BiMex shades are rated to allow a marine to stare right at a nuclear detonation!
The USS Almayer is an Arikara class patrol transport designed for large deep space operations. As necessitated by its task, the USS Almayer carries an unusually larger than average marine compliment of a full CIC, support staff, and multiple platoons rather than just a single patrol platoon or section as shown in standard USCM doctrine.
Founded by Peter Weyland in 2036, the Sir Peter Weyland's Explorers Academy is a prestigious alternative graduate school offering advanced programs in biotech, nanotech, cybernetics, and terraforming for underprivileged students, with top graduates often moving on to become loyal and top-perfoming employees of Weyland-Yutani, or in the TWE's Royal Expeditionary Group, carrying foward Sir Weyland's vision of insterstellar exploration, a legacy marked by his mysterious disappearance during the ill-fated Prometheus mission.
Being a "space trucker" is a tough carrer, hauling billion-dollar cargo and refineries between the stars. It's a job that requires you to be a pilot, engineer, logistician and sometimes, medic and even scientist. It's also an incredibly lonely profession, with tiny crews operating gargantuan ships and spending most of the journey in hypersleep adrift in the deep void. Still, it's big business, and for those who can handle the grind, the pay can be rewarding.
Autodocs are very advanced automated medical treatment pod that can perform many types of medical procedures, such as repairing wounds, infections and and pre-programmed surgical procedures such as repairing broken bones, appendectomy, laparoscopic ablation and cesarean section. All modules feature an airtight operating shield, comfortable limb restraints, a laser scalpel, computercontrolled robotic surgical arms, liquid spray anesthetic and vital signs sensors, all mounted onan adjustable titanium base.
On certain desolate colonies, a single bottle of purified water is considered a luxury item, sometimes fetching prices as high as $100 apiece.
Many Corporations provide coffee free of charge, giving a caffeine boost for tired worker power through a shift. Sourced from Guatemalan plantations on Earth, W-Y coffee is considered the finest brew and free coffee is considered one of the perks of W-Y employment.
Hypersleep pods works by using a mixture of gases and lowering one's temperature significantly to drastically slow a lifeform's biological processes to a near standstill. The only thing you can do in hyperlseep is dream, and a single dream can last months. An entire industry has sprung up around these long stasis-dreams, some are manufactured or creatively crafted by skilled "dreamers", whose subconscious adventures can be recorded and replayed for others. Corporations often sponsor these dreamscapes, slipping in subliminal messages, and with the right equipment, it’s even possible to consciously enter another sleeper's dream to communicate with them.
The Practitioners of the Holy Immolation are a radical pseudo-religious pacificist sect preaching a free Frontier of corporate exploitation and colonial warfare. They are mostly known for their shocking protests, where members often set themselves ablaze in public spaces, declaring their sacrifice a plea for a free Frontier.
Although the term "Marine" has its roots with soldiers who fought from ships at sea, the modern era it has become synonymous with elite forces who are always ready to fight, operating alone and often far from their home soil.
Motion Trackers were originally made for rescue and police services, before being adopted by military forces. It is essentially a high-powered ultrasound scanner that uses doppler-shift discrimination to filter out moving objects from stationary background.
An Orbital Barrier Minefield is a lightweight net spread through tens of kilometers across and held by rigid alloy frames and stabilized by tiny thrusters. A spaceship travelling through many kilometers-per-second will hit as if it was a hard solid object and can be potentially disabled.
Synthetics in the UPP are strictly State property, and recognized as a machine that serves the Collective, and nothing else. General acceptance of concepts of "Artificial-Personhood" are in turn not commonly found in the UPP thanks to this, in contrast to their rivals.
In 2172, widespread riots over a prolonged food shortage escalated into a full-scale rebellion in the TWE member-state of Australia, leading to the overthrow of its government by insurgent forces. The Three World Empire deployed military units to retake control, with the conflict dragging on for a decade before culminating in 2182, when the United Americas joined the conflict and US Colonial Marine Special Forces launched a nuclear strike on Canberra, crushing the rebellion and reinstating the original government.
The Union of Progressive Peoples has made it clear since its founding, that it will not cooperate or trade with the Mega-Corporate entities of its rivals, the United Americas and Three World Empire; because of this refusal it lacks any conventional terraforming or atmospheric processing technology.  This paired with many of the worlds the UPP occupies being uninhabitable, means that they instead the people of the UPP rely solely on either domed and enclosed surface structures, or more commonly, sunken bunker complexes to shield the colonists from radiation and potentially lethal weather patterns. Because of this, the sun is a foreign concept to many.
